New protocol documentation. (#380)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/1-accounts.adoc

== 1. Accounts

A Lisk account is a unique identifier called address, an amount of LSK tokens referred to as balance and possibly some extra properties used in other parts of the Lisk protocol.

The account state is not stored as part of the blockchain, but it can be computed by executing all transactions contained in past blocks. Verification of the validity of a transaction requires the state of the referenced accounts.

=== Account Properties

In the following, we list the properties stored in a Lisk account.

image::../assets/images/accountJSON.png[accountJSON]

image::../assets/images/InfographicsV1/Infographic1.png[accountJSON2]

==== `address`

An address is the main identifier of the account. It is used, for example, to identify the recipient when transferring balance between users. The address is calculated as the first 20 bytes of the SHA-256 of the public key.

> For the front end we provide a link:6-appendix.adoc#user-friendly-address[user-friendly address format], where each address starts with the prefix “_lsk”_ and a checksum is appended to signal accidental typing mistakes.

Reviewer: Do you think it is clear the way it is written now?

> For the front end we provide a link:6-appendix.adoc#user-friendly-address[user-friendly address format], where each address starts with the prefix “_lsk”_ and a checksum is appended to signal accidental typing mistakes.

Reviewer 2: yes, it is

==== `balance`

The balance is an integer value indicating how many tokens are stored in the account and available to be used. The total number of tokens owned by an account is the sum of the balance and the tokens locked into <<votes,`votes`>> and <<unlocking,`unlocking`>>.

In the Lisk protocol, all token amounts are given in Beddows, where 1 LSK = 10^8^ Beddows. Balance can be sent from one account to another using a link:2-transactions.adoc#balance-transfer[Balance Transfer Transaction].

==== `publicKey`

The public key is used to verify the validity of signatures created by the account using its corresponding private key. Furthermore, the <<address,address is generated from the public key>>.

> The public key is set only when the user sends the very first transaction from the account.

Reviewer: done

==== `nonces`

All transactions sent from one account must contain distinct link:2-transactions.adoc#nonce[*nonce*] values. This allows signing and sending multiple transactions with the same asset using different nonces, while at the same time preventing transaction replay. All nonces previously used by an account are stored in this property.

==== `asset`

The account asset contains all extra information that is specific to a transaction or to the blockchain the account belongs to. In the following, we list the properties there are part of an account asset in the Lisk mainchain.

> ===== `delegate`

Reviewer: After the STM, I edited the headers so that everything now is a level higher. If that still does not help, I will use a list

> ===== `delegate`

Reviewer 2: It's still not so great on GitHub, but we should check the rendering on the Lisk page before adding more changes to this.

= Accounts

> A Lisk account consists of a unique identifier called address, an amount of tokens referred to as balance and possibly some extra properties used in other parts of the Lisk protocol.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Lisk account consists of a unique identifier address, an amount of tokens which are referred to as the balance, and possibly some additional properties which are also used within the Lisk protocol.
```

Reviewer: partially changed

> The account state is not stored as part of the blockchain, however it can be computed by executing all transactions contained in past blocks. Verification of the validity of a transaction requires the state of the referenced accounts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The account state is not stored as part of the blockchain, however it can be computed by executing all transactions contained in previous blocks. Verification of the validity of a transaction requires the state of the referenced accounts.
```

Reviewer: done

== Account Properties

This section lists the properties stored in a Lisk account.

image::../assets/images/accountJSON.png[accountJSON]

image::../assets/images/InfographicsV1/Infographic1.png[accountJSON2]

=== `address`

> The address is the main identifier of the account. It is used, for example, to identify the recipient when transferring balance between users. The address is calculated as the first 20 bytes of the SHA-256 of the public key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The address is the main identifier of the account. For example, it is used to identify the recipient when transferring the balance between users. The address is calculated as the first 20 bytes of the SHA-256 of the public key.
```

For the front end, a link:6-appendix.adoc#user-friendly-address[user-friendly address format] is provided, whereby each address starts with the prefix “_lsk_" and a checksum is appended to signal accidental typing mistakes.

=== `balance`

The balance is an integer value indicating how many tokens are stored in the account and available to be used. The total number of tokens owned by an account is the sum of the balance and the tokens locked into <<votes,`votes`>> and <<unlocking,`unlocking`>>.

> Balance can be sent from one account to another using a link:2-transactions.adoc#balance-transfer[Balance Transfer Transaction].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The balance can be sent from one account to another using a link:2-transactions.adoc#balance-transfer[Balance Transfer Transaction].
```

=== `publicKey`

The public key is used to verify the validity of signatures created by the account using its corresponding private key. Furthermore, the <<address,address is generated from the public key>>.
The public key is set only when the first transaction originating from the account is included into the blockchain.

=== `keys`

By default, a transaction issued by an account has to be signed with the private key corresponding to the original public key that generated the account address.
However, this default configuration can be changed, and issuing a transaction can require signatures by multiple different private keys (and not necessarily the default one).
The corresponding public keys are stored in the `keys` property.
These public keys can be either [#index-mandatory-1]#mandatory*# or [#index-optional-1]#optional*#: All mandatory keys have to sign the transaction, and the total number of signatures (mandatory plus optional) has to be equal to `numberOfSignatures` (also stored in `keys`).

> Users can update the keys property with a link:2-transactions.adoc#multisignature[Multisignature Registration Transaction], specifying the mandatory and optional keys and the number of required signatures.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Users can update the key's property with a link:2-transactions.adoc#multisignature[Multisignature Registration Transaction], specifying the mandatory and optional keys and the number of required signatures.
```

Reviewer: Keys is the name of the property, changed to monospace font to clearly distinguish it

=== `nonces`

All transactions sent from one account must contain distinct link:2-transactions.adoc#nonce[*nonce*] values.

> This allows signing and sending multiple transactions with the same asset using different nonces, while at the same time preventing transaction replay.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This allows signing and sending multiple transactions with the same asset using different nonces, whilst at the same time preventing transaction replay.
```

Reviewer: I think (correct me if I'm wrong) that 'while' is the more common term for American english, while 'whilst' is more common in British english. As such, I would keep 'while' as the docs are written in American english

All nonces previously used by an account are stored in this property.

=== `asset`

The account asset contains all extra information that is specific to a transaction or to the blockchain the account belongs to.

The following properties are part of an account asset in the default Lisk protocol.

==== `delegate`

Accounts registered as delegates store extra information related to link:3-blocks.adoc#block-forgers[block forging] in this property, such as the delegate's username or the number of consecutive missed blocks.

==== `votes`

> In link:4-consensus-algorithm.adoc#lisk-delegated-proof-of-stake[Lisk delegated Proof-of-Stake], users link:2-transactions.adoc#vote[vote] for accounts that are registered as delegate accounts.

Author: ```suggestion
In link:4-consensus-algorithm.adoc#lisk-delegated-proof-of-stake[Lisk Delegated Proof-of-Stake], users link:2-transactions.adoc#vote[vote] for accounts that are registered as delegate accounts.
```

Votes issued by a user are stored in their account as a list of tuples, each with the voted-delegate address and the amount of voted tokens (in Beddows).
Tokens used for voting are [#index-locked-1]#locked*#, and cannot be used (or moved from the account) before they have been [#index-unlocked-1]#unlocked*#.

==== `unlocking`

> Tokens used to vote for a delegate are frozen, and have to be unlocked to make them available again. Similarly to the `votes` property, this property stores the voted-delegate's address and the amount, but also the block in which the votes have been removed from the delegate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tokens used to vote for a delegate are frozen, and have to be unlocked to make them available again. Similarly to the `votes` property, this property stores the voted-delegate's address and the amount, and also the block in which the votes have been removed from the delegate.
```

Reviewer: I used 'but' to introduce something contrasting with what has already been mentioned

=== `balance`

The balance is an integer value indicating how many tokens are stored in the account and available to be used. The total number of tokens owned by an account is the sum of the balance and the tokens locked into <<votes,`votes`>> and <<unlocking,`unlocking`>>.
Balance can be sent from one account to another using a link:2-transactions.adoc#balance-transfer[Balance Transfer Transaction].

=== `publicKey`

The public key is used to verify the validity of signatures created by the account using its corresponding private key. Furthermore, the <<address,address is generated from the public key>>.
The public key is set only when the first transaction originating from the account is included into the blockchain.

=== `keys`

By default, a transaction issued by an account has to be signed with the private key corresponding to the original public key that generated the account address.
However, this default configuration can be changed, and issuing a transaction can require signatures by multiple different private keys (and not necessarily the default one).
The corresponding public keys are stored in the `keys` property.

> These public keys can be either [#index-mandatory-1]#mandatory*# or [#index-optional-1]#optional*#: All mandatory keys have to sign the transaction, and the total number of signatures (mandatory plus optional) has to be equal to `numberOfSignatures` (also stored in `keys`).

Reviewer 2: #mandatory*# -> #mandatory#
#optional*#      -> #optional#
?

Reviewer: removed *

=== `nonces`

All transactions sent from one account must contain distinct link:2-transactions.adoc#nonce[*nonce*] values.
This allows signing and sending multiple transactions with the same asset using different nonces, while at the same time preventing transaction replay.
All nonces previously used by an account are stored in this property.

=== `asset`

The account asset contains all extra information that is specific to a transaction or to the blockchain the account belongs to.

The following properties are part of an account asset in the default Lisk protocol.

==== `delegate`

Accounts registered as delegates store extra information related to link:3-blocks.adoc#block-forgers[block forging] in this property, such as the delegate's username or the number of consecutive missed blocks.

==== `votes`

In link:4-consensus-algorithm.adoc#lisk-delegated-proof-of-stake[Lisk delegated Proof-of-Stake], users link:2-transactions.adoc#vote[vote] for accounts that are registered as delegate accounts.
Votes issued by a user are stored in their account as a list of tuples, each with the voted-delegate address and the amount of voted tokens (in Beddows).

> Tokens used for voting are [#index-locked-1]#locked*#, and cannot be used (or moved from the account) before they have been [#index-unlocked-1]#unlocked*#.

Reviewer 2: #locked*#       -> #locked#
#unlocked*#   -> #unlocked#
?
Or the words "locked" and "unlocked" supposed to be in bold? If so, they aren't.

Reviewer: removed *
